---
title: You Don't Need Any Self-help Books
date: 2023-11-16
---

This year, I've read some of the best selling self-help books on Amazon, such as
"The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck" by Mark Manson, "10x is Easier Than 2x" by
Benjamin Hardy and Dan Sullivan, and I've come to the conclusion that you don't
need any self-help books.

The primary problem with self-help books is that they often confuse correlation
and causation. The pattern of a self-help book usually involves claiming an idea
that is supposed to make your life better, then giving stories as supportive
evidence of some successful people who happened to integrate the idea in their
life. Suppose I wanted to write a self-help book to promote working hard with
this pattern. I would take Elon Musk as an example, and attribute his
achievement to his hard work. While hard work might have played an important
role in his path to success, I may overlook several other crucial factors, such
as his family and luck. Simply because there exists a relationship, it doesn't
mean there should be a cause-and-effect relationship.

Another good example illustrating this problem is the relationship between sales
of icecream and crime rate. Research has shown that as sales in ice cream
increase, so does the overall rate of crime. There is a relationship between the
two, but it makes no sense to conclude that one thing causes the other to occur.
It's more likely that as both ice cream sale and crime rate are related to the
temperature outside. When the weather is warm, people tend to consume more
icecream. When the weather is warm, people also tend to go outside and interact
with others, increasing the possibility of commiting crime.

If the underlying logic obviously make no sense, why is there still a
billion-dollar market for self-help books? One reason is that most authors are
playing it safe. They do not invent new concepts, but rephrase ideas that have
been argued more rigorously from philosophy, psychology or some other domains.

What if I want to become a better version of myself, that's great. You don't
need any self-help book for that. Nobody knows your own problem better than you
do. Try solving them on your own, whether it is learning a new skill,
cultivating a new habit or something else. Improvement comes from solving
problems rather than reading a book that tells you how to get rich quick.
